Feature/development-docs (#439)
epiphany-platform/epiphany: docs/home/DEVELOPMENT.md

# Development

<!-- TOC -->

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Preparing the environment](#preparing-the-environment)
- [Supplying data to the devcontainer](#supplying-data-to-the-devcontainer)
- [Note for Windows users](#note-for-Windows-users)
- [Running and debugging](#running-and-debugging)  
- [Running unit tests](#running-unit-tests)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Introduction

This document will explain how to setup the prefered [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) development environment. While there are other options to develop Epiphany like [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/) VSCode has the following advantages:

1. Epiphany is developed using many different technologies (Python, Ansible, Terraform, Docker, Jinja, YAML...) and VSCode has good tooling and extensions available to support everything in one IDE.

> 2. VSCode`s [devcontainers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) allow us to quickly setup a dockerized development environment which is the same  for every developer regardless of development platform (Linux, MacOS, Windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. VSCode's [devcontainers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) allow us to quickly setup a dockerized development environment which is the same  for every developer regardless of development platform (Linux, MacOS, Windows).
```

Reviewer: fixed in a1781ae

## Prerequisites

- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- Docker-CE
  - [Windows](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-windows)
  - [MacOS](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac)
  - [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/)

> Note: VSCode devcontainers are not properly supported using Docker Toolbox on Windows. More info [here](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-remote-release/issues/95).

Reviewer 2: You can consider adding the following info somewhere:

On Windows 7, using Docker Toolbox, in case of an error like `Error response from daemon: invalid mount config for type "bind": invalid mount path: 'd:/github/epiphany' mount path must be absolute.`, you can add the `workspaceMount` property to `core\src\epicli\.devcontainer\devcontainer.json`, for example:
```
"workspaceMount": "src=/d/github/epiphany,dst=/workspaces/epiphany,type=bind"
```
assuming that you already have mounted the path with your local Git repo in the docker-machine (using Virtualbox 'Shared Folders'), for example:
```
docker@default:~$ mount | grep vbox | grep /d
d on /d type vboxsf (rw,nodev,relatime,iocharset=utf8,uid=1000,gid=50)
```

Author: I would not add anything regarding Docker Toolbox since its not officially supported and support for Windows 7 is ending in a few months.

## Preparing the environment

1. Open the epicli project folder ```/epiphany/core/src/epicli/``` with VSCode.

2. VSCode will tell you that the workspace has recommanded extensions:

    ![extensions](../assets/images/development/extensions.png)

    Press ```Install all``` and wait until they are all installed and then restart. During the extension installations the following popup might show up:

    ![devcontainer](../assets/images/development/devcontainer.png)

>     Do **NOT** do that at this point. First you must restart VSCode to activate all extensions which where installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Do **NOT** do that at this point. First you must restart VSCode to activate all extensions which were installed.
```

Reviewer: fixed in a1781ae

3. After restarting VSCode the popup to re-open the folder in a devcontainer will show again. Press ```Reopen in Container``` to start the build of the devcontainer. You should get the following message:

    ![building](../assets/images/development/building.png)

    You can click ```detail``` to show the build process.

4. After the devcontainer is done building and started VSCode will give you the message again that this workspace has recommanded extensions. This time it is for the devcontainer. Again press ```Install all``` to install the available extensions inside the devcontainer.

Now you have a fully working Epiphany development environment!

## Supplying data to the devcontainer

> The entire working directory (```/epiphany/core/src/epicli/```)is mounted inside the container. We recommand to create an aditional directory called ```cluster``` there in which you house your data YAMLs and SSH keys. This directory is already added to the .gitignore. When executing epicli commands from that directory this is also where any build output and logs will be written to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entire working directory (```/epiphany/core/src/epicli/```) is mounted inside the container. We recommand to create an aditional directory called ```clusters``` there in which you house your data YAMLs and SSH keys. This directory is already added to the .gitignore. When executing epicli commands from that directory this is also where any build output and logs will be written to.
```

Reviewer: fixed in a1781ae

## Note for Windows users

- Watch out for line endings conversion. By default GIT for Windows sets `core.autocrlf=true`. Mounting such files with Docker results in `^M` end-of-line character in the config files.
Use: [Checkout as-is, commit Unix-style](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10418975/how-to-change-line-ending-settings) (`core.autocrlf=input`) or Checkout as-is, commit as-is (`core.autocrlf=false`).

- Mounting NTFS disk folders in a linux based image causes permission issues with SSH keys. You can copy them inside the container and set the propper permissions using:

    ```shell

>     mkdir -p /home/vscode/.ssh/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    mkdir -p /home/vscode/.ssh
```

>     cp ./cluster/ssh/id_rsa* /home/vscode/.ssh/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    cp ./clusters/ssh/id_rsa* /home/vscode/.ssh/
```

>     chmod 400 /home/vscode/ssh/id_rsa*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    chmod 700 /home/vscode/.ssh && chmod 644 /home/vscode/.ssh/id_rsa.pub && chmod 600 /home/vscode/.ssh/id_rsa
```

    ```

This needs to be executed from the devcontainer bash terminal:

![terminal](../assets/images/development/terminal.png)

## Running and debugging

> For debugging open the VSCode debug tab:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For debugging, open the VSCode's Debug tab:
```

![debug](../assets/images/development/debug.png)

> Per default there is one launch configuration present called ```epicli```. This launch configuration can be found in ```/epiphany/core/src/epicli/.vscode/``` and looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default there is one launch configuration called ```epicli```. This launch configuration can be found in ```/epiphany/core/src/epicli/.vscode/``` and looks like this:
```

  ```json
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "epicli",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/cli/epicli.py",
            "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
            "pythonPath": "${config:python.pythonPath}",
            "env": { "PYTHONPATH": "${workspaceFolder}" },
            "console": "integratedTerminal",
            "args": ["apply",  "-f",  "${workspaceFolder}/PATH_TO_YOUR_DATA_YAML"]
        }
    ]
  ```

> You can copy this configuration and change the names like to create different ones to suite your needs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can copy this configuration and change values (like below) to create different ones to suite your needs:
```

  ```json
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "epicli",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/cli/epicli.py",
            "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
            "pythonPath": "${config:python.pythonPath}",
            "env": { "PYTHONPATH": "${workspaceFolder}" },
            "console": "integratedTerminal",
            "args": ["apply",  "-f",  "${workspaceFolder}/PATH_TO_YOUR_DATA_YAML"]
        },
        {
            "name": "epicli show version",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/cli/epicli.py",
            "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
            "pythonPath": "${config:python.pythonPath}",
            "env": { "PYTHONPATH": "${workspaceFolder}" },
            "console": "integratedTerminal",
            "args": ["--version"]
        }
    ]
  ```

In the ```args``` field you can pass an array of the arguments that you want epicli to run with.

> To run a configuration select it and press the run button:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run a configuration, select it and press the run button:
```

![rundebug](../assets/images/development/rundebug.png)

> For more information about debugging in VSCode go [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about debugging in VSCode, go [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging).
```

## Running unit tests

> The standart python test runner fails to discover the tests so we use the ```Python Test Explorer``` extension. To run the unit test open the test tab in VSCode and select the run button:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The standard Python test runner fails to discover the tests so we use the ```Python Test Explorer``` extension. To run the unit tests, open the VSCode's Test tab and press the run button:
```
